{{Chess Opening Theory/Position|=
|Hopton Attack, Cherniaev Defence|
   |rd|  |bd|qd|kd|bd|nd|rd|=
   |pd|pd|pd|pd|pd|  |pd|pd|=
   |  |  |nd|  |  |  |  |  |=
   |  |  |  |  |  |pd|bl|  |=
   |  |  |  |pl|  |  |  |  |=
   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |=
   |pl|pl|pl|  |pl|pl|pl|pl|=
   |rl|nl|  |ql|kl|bl|nl|rl|=
|moves=1.d4 f5 2.Bg5 Nc6
|eco=[[Chess/ECOA|A80]]
|parent=[[Chess/Dutch Defence|Dutch Defence]]
}}
= Dutch Defence: Hopton Attack, Cherniaev Defence =
===2. Bg5 Nc6===
Black choses a flexibel move. The intension is to avoid an early Nf6, which can be traded of by white. This is not in black interrest, because it weakens the kingside. 

== White Responses ==

=== Cherniaev Defence, Perth Variation ===
'''2.Bg5 Nc6 3.Bh4 g6 '''
{{Chess diagram small|=
| tleft
| 
|= 

 8 |rd|nd|bd|qd|kd|bd|nd|rd|=
 7 |pd|pd|pd|pd|pd|  |  |pd|=
 6 |  |  |nd|  |  |  |pd|  |=
 5 |  |  |  |  |  |pd|  |  |=
 4 |  |  |  |pl|  |  |  |bl|=
 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |=
 2 |pl|pl|pl|  |pl|pl|pl|pl|=
 1 |rl|nl|  |ql|kl|bl|nl|rl|=
    a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h

|
}}
White maintains the pin on the queen. For black it is easy to make a mistake and has contantly react with precision.
Black's strongest reply is to opt for the Leningrad pawn structure and more importantly NOT to play Nf6 too early. 
This leads to a trade which is not desired by black. Common continuations are  <br><br>
4.Nc3 Bc7, 5.e3 d6, 6.Bc4 Bf6 <br><br>
White's idea is to prevent black to castle early and to make every move as hard as possible. 
{{-}}

=== Cherniaev Defence, Bellin Variation ===
'''2.Bg5 Nc6 3.Nf3 h6 '''
{{Chess diagram small|=
| tleft
| 
|= 

 8 |rd|nd|bd|qd|kd|bd|nd|rd|=
 7 |pd|pd|pd|pd|pd|  |pd|  |=
 6 |  |  |nd|  |  |  |  |pd|=
 5 |  |  |  |  |  |pd|bl|  |=
 4 |  |  |  |pl|  |  |  |  |=
 3 |  |  |  |  |  |nl|  |  |=
 2 |pl|pl|pl|  |pl|pl|pl|pl|=
 1 |rl|nl|  |ql|kl|bl|  |rl|=
    a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h

|
}}
White must '''not''' play Bh4 because of <br><br>
4.Nh4 g5, 5.Bg3 f4 <br><br> 
and the bishop is trapped.
Common continuations are  <br><br>
4.Bd2 e6, 5.c4 Nf6, 6.Nc3 Bb4 <br><br>
Black's idea is to prevent white to play e4. White typically develops the queen and castle long. 
White will gain an early initiative. Black has to respond and won't have time to castle soon. 
{{-}}

=== Cherniaev Defence, Pretoria Variation ===
'''2.Bg5 Nc6 3.f4 Nf6 '''
{{Chess diagram small|=
| tleft
| 
|= 

 8 |rd|nd|bd|qd|kd|bd|  |rd|=
 7 |pd|pd|pd|pd|pd|  |pd|pd|=
 6 |  |  |nd|  |  |nd|  |  |=
 5 |  |  |  |  |  |pd|bl|  |=
 4 |  |  |  |pl|  |pl|  |  |=
 3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |=
 2 |pl|pl|pl|  |pl|  |pl|pl|=
 1 |rl|nl|  |ql|kl|bl|nl|rl|=
    a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h

|
}}
White doesn't want to trade the bishop for a knight yet. Instead white can chase the knight 
on black's queen side around. 
This can be accomplished with <br><br>
4.d5 Na5, 5.b4 Nc4, 6.e4 Nb6 <br><br>
This is a very aggressive position in favor for white. However white is also over extended. 
Later on black can create counter play. White will continue to chase black's knights around. 
But black can win material. If black survives the attack, black will have an advantage in the endgame. 
{{-}}

=== Cherniaev Defence, Belem Variation ===
'''2.Bg5 Nc6 3.e3 g6 '''
{{Chess diagram small|=
| tleft
| 
|= 

 8 |rd|nd|bd|qd|kd|bd|nd|rd|=
 7 |pd|pd|pd|pd|pd|  |  |pd|=
 6 |  |  |nd|  |  |  |pd|  |=
 5 |  |  |  |  |  |pd|bl|  |=
 4 |  |  |  |pl|  |  |  |  |=
 3 |  |  |  |  |pl|  |  |  |=
 2 |pl|pl|pl|  |  |pl|pl|pl|=
 1 |rl|nl|  |ql|kl|bl|nl|rl|=
    a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h

|
}}
White's dark bishop is out, white can build up a strong center. 
Furthermore e3 prevents f4 and so the dark bishop can no longer be trapped. 
It leads to active play on both sides. This Belem Variation has become the main line against 
the Cherniaeve Defence. 
Common continuations are  <br><br>
4.Nc3 Bg7, 5.Qd2 d6, 6.h4 a5 <br><br>
White's idea is to attack king side and castle long. Black will launch a queen side attack and castle short.
A long tactical battle is ahead. As in most positions, white has and edge here, but black is not to far behind with 
ideas of counter play on the opposite side. 
{{-}}

== Historic background and main contributor == 

'''Alexander cherniaev'''
Alexander Cherniaev is a Russian-born chess grandmaster who now represents England.
 He was born on August 26, 1969, in Arkhangelsk, Soviet Union.
 Cherniaev earned the title of Grandmaster in 2004.
 His peak FIDE rating was 2509, achieved in July 2002.
 As of September 2023, his FIDE ratings were 2289 for classical, 2296 for rapid, and 2603 for blitz.
 He holds a FIDE ID of 4117301. <br>

Cherniaev has an extensive tournament record, with over 1200 games played between 1972 and 2025.
 He has participated in numerous events, including the Smyslov Cup Masters 2025 and the Ivi GP Chess 2025, where he played against players like Kirill Stupak, Andrey Gorovets, and Eldiar Orozbaev.
 He also competed in the 4NCL 2023-24 season and the Southend Masters 2024.
 In January 2019, he tied for first place at the 94th Hastings Congress alongside several other grandmasters.
 He has also given lectures and held simultaneous exhibitions, including one in Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada, as part of the Canadian Open in July 2019. <br>

Beyond chess, Alexander Cherniaev is an academic. He is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical, Automotive, and Materials Engineering at the University of Windsor in Canada.
 He holds a PhD in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Manitoba and a Candidate of Sciences degree in Aerospace Engineering from Samara State Aerospace University in Russia.
 His research focuses on the impact mechanics of advanced materials and structures, including composites, foams, and flexible ballistic fabrics, with applications in aircraft engines, satellite protection, and terminal ballistics.
<br>

He is also an author, notably co-writing "The New Old Indian: A Repertoire for Black Against 1 d4, as well as Nc6 against the Hopton Attack in the Dutch" with Eduard Prokuronov, where he presents an aggressive and modern interpretation of the Old Indian Defence and the Dutch Defence.
 He has also been recognized for winning the silver medal at the Moscow Championship. <br>

== Theory table ==
{{Chess Opening Theory/Table}}
'''1. d4 f5 2. Bg5 Nc6'''

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center;"
|-
! Description !! 2 !! 3 !! 4 !! 5 !! 6 !! 7 !! Evaluation !! Notes
|-
| '''Cherniaev Defence, Perth Variation'''
| Bg5<br>Nc6
| [[/3._Bh4|Bh4]]<br>...
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| =
| flexible setup for Black. White can maintain pin on the queen.
|-
| '''Cherniaev Defence, Bellin Variation'''
| ...<br>Nc6
| [[/3._Nf3|Nf3]]<br>...
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| +/=
| Both sides stay flexibel, leading to dynamic play.
|-
| '''Cherniaev Defence, Pretoria Variation'''
| ...<br>Nc6
| [[/3._f4|f4]]<br>...
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| +/=
| Aggressive play by white, leading to a long lasting initiative.
|-
| '''Cherniaev Defence, Belem Variation (Main Line)'''
| ...<br>Nc6
| [[/3._e3|e3]]<br>...
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| +/=
| Active play by white, most sound way to play
|-
| '''Cherniaev Defence, Puebla Variation (Old Main Line)'''
| ...<br>Nc6
| [[/3._c4|c4]]<br>...
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| =/-
| Romantic Variation, whith correct play, black can get the upper hand
|-
| '''Cherniaev Defence, Tepic Variation'''
| ...<br>Nc6
| [[/3._Nc3|Nc3]]<br>...
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| <br>
| +/=
| Tactical play, white aims to get the initiative with e4 in the future.
|}
{{ChessMid}}
{{Wikipedia|Dutch Defence}}

==References==
{{reflist}}
{{NCO}}
{{Chess Opening Theory/Footer}}

